# NONA CREATIVE
----
by Nona Creative, . <http://www.nonacreative.com>

# ABOUT THE NONA CREATIVE STARTER THEME
----
This is our custom basic framework we use to develop WordPress based websites and themes.

# SETUP
----
Our Starter theme requires a number of system dependancies to be installed, these include the following : 

 * [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/download/) - for php package / librariy management
 * [NPM and Node](https://nodejs.org/download/) - for npm packages & our build system
 * [grunt](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) - which we use for our build system
 * [bower](http://bower.io/#install-bower) - for front end package management

## GETTING STARTED
After installing wordpress clone the starter theme repository **from the comaand line** by doing the following :

1 ) Navigate to the project folder in terminal (its easiest to type `cd`, for change directory, and the drag the themes folder onto the terminal window for the full path. ) 

Note that this is different from before, this repo will ONLY BE THE THEME.

2 ) clone the theme repo by running the following command (substitute your usernamme if neccessary):
````bash
		git clone --recursive https://pushplaybang@bitbucket.org/pushplaybang/nona_start.git
````
replace your username in the link above and enter your password for bitbucket if reqested, once the theme is cloned, add this to tower / sourctree as a local respository, then edit your 'Remotes', removing its link to bitbucket and adding a new clean online repository.

````
TODO : test using the git --depth argument to avoid pulling the entire repo history, or if we move to gihub start managing releases.
````

3) Back in the terminal, we need to install the php dependancies, for which we use composer. `cd` into the theme root directory and do the following : 

to remove the version lock : 
````bash
    rm composer.lock
````
to install the dependancies : 
````bash
    composer install
````
In the future you may wish to update these dependancies, this can be done by editing the versions specified in the composer.json file, and then running the following : 
````bash
    composer update
````
4 ) In the terminal, `cd` into the directory and then into the `assets` directory and run the following commands:

**to install the required NPM modules for grunt**
````bash
		npm install 
````
**to install  / update the bower components.**  These are not included in the theme but will 	give you the latest versions of the common plugins and libraries that we most often use, if 	need one, quickly reach in here and drop the files you need into the plugins directory.
````bash
		bower install
````
NB :  you can edit this bower.json should you need additional plugins etc, packages can be added with `bower install <package-name> --save-dev` and you can then edit the gruntfile.js to include them properly.

5 ) Run the following to copy all the project dependancies etc into the correct locations:
````bash
		grunt buildit
````
6 ) when starting to work on your project go to the theme directory and run :
````bash
		grunt
````	
to stop the grunt process press `ctrl+c`

**nb :** There are also dev variations of these two commands that run slightly faster and do not minify the results (sometimes making debuggin easier), you can alternatively run `grunt devbuildit` and `grunt dev`.  As a rule please stop this process and run grunt buildit to prepare all assets for a staging or production environment prior to commits to the master branch on any project.

# FAVICONS
----
Favicons generated by http://realfavicongenerator.net/

### IMPORTANT NOTE : 
When generating a favicon with RealFaviconGenerator, the instructions ask you to place all files at the root of your web site. You may want to place them in a sub-directory, for example in http://mywebsite.com/icons/, just to make things clearer. However, there are three drawbacks with this approach:

Internet Explorer looks for favicon.ico at the root of the web site. Granted: this is because we ask you to not declare favicon.ico.

iOS devices look for files such as apple-touch-icon-144x144.png at the root of the web site, as described by Apple. This issue can be mitigated by declaring the icons in the HTML code (this is necessary for Android anyway), but following Apple conventions is probably the best move.

By default, Internet Explorer 11 looks for browserconfig.xml at the root of the web site.

# Contributing
----
Please log concerns / issues with the starter theme in the now shared** issue tracker** in bit bucket.  

If you would like to fix something, please **pull** down the theme, create a **branch**, and make your changes.  Once your changes are complete, **commit** them and push them to **YOUR BRANCH**.  lastly create a **pull request** on bitbucket so that the changes can be reviewed.

### Naming Branches
When creating branches please use the following pattern,  for features  add 'feature/' to the branch name which will put it in what appears like a feat subfolder.  for fixes please use 'fix/' so that we can keep branches appropriately organised

### Theme Notes 
We've begun to document specific theme hooks, functions and conventions in the README_THEME_MD.md file.

# LISCENSING
----
This is specifically not open for re use without written consent from the owner. Copyright [Paul van Zyl](http://nonacreative.com), All rtights reserved. 